---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "BAAIWorm: At the frontier of whole brain emulation"
excerpt: ""
date:   2025-10-31 00:00:00
categories: [Project]
tags: ["BAAIWorm", "Whole Brain Emulation"]
---

## Table of Contents

* TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction

Is it possible to upload the brain of an organism onto a computer? This question is the
basis of Whole Brain Emulation (WBE), a field which is attempting to do just that.

In pursuit of this, researchers start with a simple type of roundworm known
as Caenorhabditis elegans (C. Elegans). This worm is chosen because it's entire
nervous system consisting of 302 neurons has been fully mapped by researchers,
including the synaptic connections between the neurons.
So in theory, this should allow us to just replicate the worm in sillico and then be done with it?

Well turns out, it's not that simple. The mapping of the neurons and their connections
is known as the connectome. This is akin to knowing the road layout of a city, that
doesn't inform you of the moment to moment traffic conditions, vehicles, pedestrian activity,
etc. at any one time.

Just some of the complexities are listed below:
- **Synaptic details:** The strength of each connection isn't captured by the basic connectome.
Also, each synapse can either be excitatory (encouraging the next neuron to fire), or inhibitory
(discouraging the next neuron to fire).
- **Dynamic Activity:** The strength of connections change over time through processes such as
synaptic plasticity, which is fundamental to learning and memory.
- **Neuromodulation:** The entire nervous system is bathed in a chemical soup of neuromodulators. These substances can change the "mood" of the neural circuits, altering the worm's behaviour—for example, switching it from a food-seeking state to a resting state—without changing the underlying wiring.
- **Embodiment:** A brain doesn't exist in a vacuum. It controls a body with muscles and receives feedback from sensors. To truly emulate the worm, we also need to simulate its physical body and its interaction with the environment.

## Overview

?

## Visualisation

<center>
    <iframe
        src="https://miscellaneousstuff.github.io/baaiworm.html"
        style="border: 0; width: 900px; height: 600px;"
    >
    </iframe>
</center>

## Resources

- [Nature Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00738-w)
- [BAAIWorm Original Repo](https://github.com/Jessie940611/BAAIWorm)
- [BAAIWorm Visualisation Repo](https://github.com/MiscellaneousStuff/baaiworm-render)